README.md, before:

# BSR: B-spline atomic R-matrix codes

BSR is a general program to calculate atomic continuum processes using
the B-spline R-matrix method, including electron-atom and electron-ion
scattering, and radiative processes such as bound-bound transitions,
photoionization and polarizabilities. The calculations can be
performed in LS-coupling or in an intermediate-coupling scheme by
including terms of the Breit-Pauli Hamiltonian.

The present version is the deep recomposition of the original version
published in

      >  Computer Physics Communications 174 (2006) 273–356

Numerous new features and extansions are added, see doc folder in this
repository and the references:

* Atomic structure calculations using MCHF and BSR
  >Oleg Zatsarinny and Charlotte Froese Fischer
  >Computer Physics Communications 180 (2009) 2041–2065

* The B-spline R-matrix method for atomic processes:
  application to atomic structure, electron collisions and photoionization
  >Oleg Zatsarinny and Klaus Bartschat
  >J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 112001

## DBSR - Dirac-based fully-relativistic B-spline atomic R-matrix codes

DBSR is a general program to calculate atomic continuum processes
using the B-spline R-matrix method, including electron-atom and
electron-ion scattering, and radiative processes such as bound-bound
transitions, photoionization and polarizabilities. The calculations
are performed in jj-coupling scheme using the Dirac-Coulomb-Breit
Hamiltonian.

# Build instructions

Building BSR requires

- [CMake](https://cmake.org/) (at least version 3.13)
- A working Fortran compiler (tested with `gfortran` 9.3)
- A BLAS/LAPACK installation
- Optionally, a MPI implementation (tested with OpenMPI). If found,
  MPI versions of some of the codes are also built.

When these requirements are fulfilled, building BSR is very
easy. Create a `build/` subdirectory, and compile from there:

```bash
/path/to/bsr $ mkdir build && cd build

/path/to/bsr/build $ FC=gfortran cmake ../src/
-- The C compiler identification is AppleClang 11.0.0.11000033
-- The CXX compiler identification is AppleClang 11.0.0.11000033
...

/path/to/bsr/build $ make
```

(Multithreaded build with `make -jN` does not work with Fortran
modules interdependencies).

All executables can then be found under `build/bin/`.

# Warnings

The code is very complex and there are very few tests. It is very
possible that due to refactoring of the code, it is no longer
compatible with binary files created with earlier versions. The input
format has not changed though, so the preferred way to store a
calculation for future reuse is to version-control the input files and
possibly the textual output.

Commit message:

Cleaned up build system by separating out toolchain-specific flags

README.md, after:

# BSR: B-spline atomic R-matrix codes

BSR is a general program to calculate atomic continuum processes using
the B-spline R-matrix method, including electron-atom and electron-ion
scattering, and radiative processes such as bound-bound transitions,
photoionization and polarizabilities. The calculations can be
performed in LS-coupling or in an intermediate-coupling scheme by
including terms of the Breit-Pauli Hamiltonian.

The present version is the deep recomposition of the original version
published in

      >  Computer Physics Communications 174 (2006) 273–356

Numerous new features and extansions are added, see doc folder in this
repository and the references:

* Atomic structure calculations using MCHF and BSR
  >Oleg Zatsarinny and Charlotte Froese Fischer
  >Computer Physics Communications 180 (2009) 2041–2065

* The B-spline R-matrix method for atomic processes:
  application to atomic structure, electron collisions and photoionization
  >Oleg Zatsarinny and Klaus Bartschat
  >J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 46 (2013) 112001

## DBSR - Dirac-based fully-relativistic B-spline atomic R-matrix codes

DBSR is a general program to calculate atomic continuum processes
using the B-spline R-matrix method, including electron-atom and
electron-ion scattering, and radiative processes such as bound-bound
transitions, photoionization and polarizabilities. The calculations
are performed in jj-coupling scheme using the Dirac-Coulomb-Breit
Hamiltonian.

# Build instructions

Building BSR requires

- [CMake](https://cmake.org/) (at least version 3.13)
- A working Fortran compiler (tested with `gfortran` 9.3)
- A BLAS/LAPACK installation
- Optionally, a MPI implementation (tested with OpenMPI). If found,
  MPI versions of some of the codes are also built.

When these requirements are fulfilled, building BSR is very
easy. Create a `build/` subdirectory, and compile from there:

```bash
/path/to/bsr $ mkdir build && cd build

/path/to/bsr/build $ FC=gfortran cmake ../src/
-- The C compiler identification is AppleClang 11.0.0.11000033
-- The CXX compiler identification is AppleClang 11.0.0.11000033
...

/path/to/bsr/build $ make
```

(Multithreaded build with `make -jN` does not work with Fortran
modules interdependencies).

All executables can then be found under `build/bin/`.

## Compiler flags

Toolchain-specific compiler flags are supported through the `*.cmake`
files found in the [`src`](src) directory; by adding
e.g. `-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../src/gcc.cmake` to the `cmake`
invocation above, optimization and debug flags appropriate for GCC
will be applied. Additional CMake flags of interest are
- `-DBUILD_MPI_PROGRAMS=[ON]|OFF`, turn on (default)/off building of
  MPI versions of some of the codes.
- `-DBLAS_ROOT=...`, useful if your BLAS/LAPACK installation is in a
  non-standard location.
- `-DBLA_VENDOR=OpenBLAS`, or whichever BLAS version you prefer.
- `-DBLA_STATIC=1`, if you prefer static linkage of BLAS/LAPACK.
- `-DCMAKE_EXE_LINKER_FLAGS=...`, useful for e.g. hardcoding paths to
  libraries (`"-Wl,-rpath,/path/to/libs"`).

# Warnings

The code is very complex and there are very few tests. It is very
possible that due to refactoring of the code, it is no longer
compatible with binary files created with earlier versions. The input
format has not changed though, so the preferred way to store a
calculation for future reuse is to version-control the input files and
possibly the textual output.
